POC: running docs examples using runme binary (#750)
istio-ecosystem/sail-operator: docs/guidelines/guidelines.md

- The documentation files are in the `docs` folder.
- The `make update` target is going to run the script `tests/documentation_test/scripts/update-docs-examples.sh` that is going to generate the md modified files to run the test (For more information check next topic).
- The `make test.docs` target is going to run the script `tests/documentation_test/scripts/run-docs-examples.sh` that is going to run the tests over the documentation files. This script is going to run all the steps in the examples marked following the guidelines explained in the next section.

### What update-docs-examples.sh do?
The script `update-docs-examples.sh` is going to run the following steps:
- Check all the md files in the `docs` folder and exclude from the list the files described inside the `EXCLUDE_FILES` variable. The resulting list will be all the .md files that contains at least one time this pattern `bash { name=`. This pattern is used by the `readme` tool to generate the resulting jupiter notebook by looking into all the code blocks that has certain fields decorator. The fields decorator and how to use them are explained in the next section.

> - Once the files are copied into the destination path we check those files to uncomment the bash commented steps. This bash commented code block are going to be hiden in the original md files but we will uncomment this code block to be able to run validation steps that wait for conditions an avoid flakiness of the test. THis means that all the validation steps need to be commented code blocks

Author: Already discussed on Slack

### Adding a topic example to the automation workflow
To add a new topic to the automation workflow you need to:
1. In your documentation topic, each bash code block that you want to execute as part of the automation must include the following pattern:
- `bash { name=example-name tag=example-tag }`: the fields used here are:
  - `name`: the name of the example step, this is usefull to identify the step in the output of the test. The name should be short and descriptive. For example: `deploy-operator`, `wait-operator`, etc.

>   - `tag`: the tag of the example that is going to be used to run the test, is important to be a unique name. This tag should be unique and should not be used in other examples. The tag can be used to run only a specific example inside a file.

Author: Good point, if someone redeclares the tag in the same file, it will be an issue, if those tags are in different files, there will not be issues because we execute later by setting file and tag. But, I'll be adding a validation steps to avoid duplicity of the tags

>   - `tag`: the tag of the example that is going to be used to run the test, is important to be a unique name. This tag should be unique and should not be used in other examples. The tag can be used to run only a specific example inside a file.

Author: I added a validation step before start copying the files where we check if the same tag is being used in another file. If is being used it will fail. I think adding a validation for inside the same file is too dificult because we will have the tag multiple times already

For example:

````md
```bash { name=deploy-operator tag=example}
helm repo add sail-operator https://istio-ecosystem.github.io/sail-operator
```
````

- `bash { ignore=true }`: this pattern is used to ignore the code block when they are going to be run by the `runme` tool. This is used to ignore or avoid the excution of yaml examples (because `runme` threat everything as a bash command) or any other code block that you do not want to run. This is going to be used in the examples that are going to be run by the `runme` tool. For example

````md
- Example of a Istio resource:
```yaml { ignore=true }
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: Istio
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  namespace: istio-system
  updateStrategy:
    type: RevisionBased
    inactiveRevisionDeletionGracePeriodSeconds: 30
  version: v1.24.2
```
````

> *Note:* take into account that all the code blocks that are going to be run by the `runme` tool should be tagged with the language `bash` at the beginning of the block and they need to contain only commands that are going to be run in the terminal and all the steps that are not needed to be executed because they are not commands or they are not needed for the goal of the example should be ignored with the `ignore=true` tag. For example

Author: I simplified the text in the new PR

  version: v1.24.2
---
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: IstioRevisionTag
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Istio
    name: default
```
- Create ns, `Istio` and `IstioRevisionTag` resources:
```bash { name=create-istio tag=example}
kubectl create ns istio-system
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: Istio
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  namespace: istio-system
  updateStrategy:
    type: RevisionBased
    inactiveRevisionDeletionGracePeriodSeconds: 30
  version: v1.24.2
---
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: IstioRevisionTag
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Istio
    name: default
EOF
```
````

- Validation steps are always needed, to add a validation step you can comment directly the entire code block with the bash command that you want to run. This validation steps need to use the same tag as the example where they are going to run and should be prefixed with `validation-description`. For example:
```md
<!-- ```bash { name=validation-wait-operator tag=example}
kubectl wait --for=condition=available --timeout=600s deployment/sail-operator -n sail-operator
``` -->
```

> *Important:* please add always validation steps to avoid flakyness during the execution, this steps will ensure that resource conditions are met and the test will not fail because of a timeout or any other issue. This validation needs to add failures to the test if the condition is not met.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Important:* please always add validation steps to avoid flakyness during the execution, these steps will ensure that resource conditions are met and the test will not fail because of a timeout or any other issue. This validation needs to fail the test if the condition is not met, by returning a non-zero return code. Use `kubectl wait` over `sleep` wherever possible.
```

### What update-docs-examples.sh do?
The script `update-docs-examples.sh` is going to run the following steps:
- Check all the md files in the `docs` folder and exclude from the list the files described inside the `EXCLUDE_FILES` variable. The resulting list will be all the .md files that contains at least one time this pattern `bash { name=`. This pattern is used by the `readme` tool to generate the resulting jupiter notebook by looking into all the code blocks that has certain fields decorator. The fields decorator and how to use them are explained in the next section.
- Once the files are copied into the destination path we check those files to uncomment the bash commented steps. This bash commented code block are going to be hiden in the original md files but we will uncomment this code block to be able to run validation steps that wait for conditions an avoid flakiness of the test. THis means that all the validation steps need to be commented code blocks

### Adding a topic example to the automation workflow
To add a new topic to the automation workflow you need to:

> 1. Add into the example or the new example in the docs the next patterns in exact order into each code block `bash` that will be running the example:

Author: Improved

````md
- You shouuld set version for Istio in the `Istio` resource and `IstioRevisionTag` resource should reference the name of the `Istio` resource:
```yaml { ignore=true }
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: Istio
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  namespace: istio-system
  updateStrategy:
    type: RevisionBased
    inactiveRevisionDeletionGracePeriodSeconds: 30
  version: v1.24.2
---
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: IstioRevisionTag
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Istio
    name: default
```
- Create ns, `Istio` and `IstioRevisionTag` resources:
```bash { name=create-istio tag=example}
kubectl create ns istio-system
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: Istio
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  namespace: istio-system
  updateStrategy:
    type: RevisionBased
    inactiveRevisionDeletionGracePeriodSeconds: 30
  version: v1.24.2
---
apiVersion: sailoperator.io/v1
kind: IstioRevisionTag
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: Istio
    name: default
EOF
```
````

> - Validation steps are always needed, to add a validation step you can comment directly the entire code block with the bash command that you want to run. This validation steps need to use the same tag as the example where they are going to run and should be prefixed with `validation-validation-description`. For example:

Author: Done
